# RetailerGambitDataVisulization-R
Retailers’ Gambit: A deep dive into the gaming retailers’ pricing behaviors


Over the last few decades, product consumers have become highly aware of the price setting strategies and voluntary efforts of market retailers to influence consumers’ decision-making patterns. Consequently, price comparison websites like PriceSpy came into existence in 2002 (Om Prisjakt - Kunskap före köp, 2022). The main objective of this website is to provide the readers with sufficient price analytics basis across various products’ ranges at nil cost to enhance their buying efficiency. The objective of this report is to extract the essence of price setting strategies via prices and related variables from the price comparison website, PriceSpy Sweden for the years 2012 until 2017 and discuss the implications of such behaviors with respect to the regulatory authorities and end consumers as well. Moreover, this report will shed light on clustering patterns (if any) among different retailers to highlight any trends or relationships among them.


Price comparison websites
The ongoing digitalization in society means that traditional retailers need to adapt to the increased use of price comparison websites, where consumers can compare prices at a search cost (effort to find prices) that is close to zero. Furthermore, regulators, such as competition authorities, have a need to study markets and discover whether unfair competition or malpractices are being found, as well as a general interest in how the markets function. One price comparison marketplace that has grown substantially since its inception in 1998, is that of PriceSpy Sweden. From merely having some 40 retailers listed, the number has grown well in excess over 4000, and increasing. As part of a research project related to Microdata analysis, prices and related variable were retrieved from the price comparison website PriceSpy Sweden for the years 2012 until early 2017. Data consists of primarily prices on retailer-product level, both CPI adjusted price and log of CPI adjusted price is included.
